README.md, before:

# The Development Gap in Economic Rationality of Future Elites
Authors:

- Alexander W. Cappelen
- Shachar Kariv
- Erik Ø. Sørensen (contactperson for code and data)
- Bertil Tungodden

**Abstract**: We test the touchstones of economic rationality---utility
maximization, stochastic dominance, and expected-utility maximization---of elite
students in the U.S. and in Africa. The choices of most students in both samples
are generally rationalizable, but the U.S. students' scores are substantially
higher. Nevertheless, the development gap in economic rationality between these
future elites is much smaller than the difference in performance on a canonical
cognitive ability test, often used as a proxy for economic decision-making
ability in studies of economic development and growth. We argue for the
importance of including consistency with economic rationality in studies of
decision-making ability.


## Overview

The master file this replication package will:

1. Install the required versions of the necessary `R` packages from CRAN.
2. Downloads the necessary datafiles from Harvard Dataverse (TBC).
3. Create all the displays in the paper as separate files (documented below).
4. Create markdown documents for numbers referenced in the paper but not explicitly part of produced tables.




## Data availability statement

The experimental data used to support the findings of this study were collected
by the authors. All data, with documentation, have been deposited in the public
domain at Harvard Dataverse:


The experimental and survey data used to support the findings of this study have
been deposited in the Harvard Dataverse repository ([DOI or OTHER PERSISTENT IDENTIFIER]).
The data were collected by the authors, and are available under a Creative
Commons Non-commercial license.

We certify that the author(s) of the manuscript have legitimate access to and permission to use the data used in this manuscript, and the data are licensed under a Creative Commons/CC0 license. See [LICENSE_CC0.txt](LICENSE_CC0.txt) for details.

The data file is downloaded when the `targets` plan is first run.


## Computational requirements

### Software requirements

### Memory and runtime requirements

Approximate time needed to reproduce all the analyses on a desktop machine (2023) 
would be about 15 seconds.


## Description of programs/code

The graphical displays are produced in the `graphs/` directory (as pdf-files). The tables are
produced in the `tables/` directory (as tex-files).

Commit message:

A bit more details on the computational infrastructure.

README.md, after:

# The Development Gap in Economic Rationality of Future Elites
Authors:

- Alexander W. Cappelen
- Shachar Kariv
- Erik Ø. Sørensen (contactperson for code and data, erik.sorensen@nhh.no)
- Bertil Tungodden

**Abstract**: We test the touchstones of economic rationality---utility
maximization, stochastic dominance, and expected-utility maximization---of elite
students in the U.S. and in Africa. The choices of most students in both samples
are generally rationalizable, but the U.S. students' scores are substantially
higher. Nevertheless, the development gap in economic rationality between these
future elites is much smaller than the difference in performance on a canonical
cognitive ability test, often used as a proxy for economic decision-making
ability in studies of economic development and growth. We argue for the
importance of including consistency with economic rationality in studies of
decision-making ability.


## Overview

The master file this replication package will:

1. Install the required versions of the necessary `R` packages from CRAN.
2. Downloads the necessary datafiles from Harvard Dataverse (TBC).
3. Create all the displays in the paper as separate files (documented below).
4. Create markdown documents for numbers referenced in the paper but not explicitly part of produced tables.




## Data availability statement

The experimental data used to support the findings of this study were collected
by the authors. All data, with documentation, have been deposited in the public
domain at Harvard Dataverse:


The experimental and survey data used to support the findings of this study have
been deposited in the Harvard Dataverse repository ([DOI or OTHER PERSISTENT IDENTIFIER]).
The data were collected by the authors, and are available under a Creative
Commons Non-commercial license.

We certify that the author(s) of the manuscript have legitimate access to and permission to use the data used in this manuscript, and the data are licensed under a Creative Commons/CC0 license. See [LICENSE_CC0.txt](LICENSE_CC0.txt) for details.

The data file is downloaded when the `targets` plan is first run.


## Computational requirements

### Software requirements



### Memory and runtime requirements

Calculating the revealed preference statistics (in particular the CCEI for
Expected Utility) is slow. the current setup parallelizes and runs separate
branches for each participant. Running 12 processes in parallel on 
a 2017 workstation, each branch takes on average a bit more than 20 minutes, so 
there are about 30 individuals processed per hour, or about 10-12 hours in total
for this task.

Given the revealed preference statistics, Approximate time needed to reproduce
all the analyses on a desktop machine (2023) is trivial.


## Description of programs/code

The graphical displays are produced in the `graphs/` directory (as pdf-files). The tables are
produced in the `tables/` directory (as tex-files). 

The file `R/PollisonEtAl.R` contains functions extracted from the replication package
of Pollison et al (2020a,2020b). This code
was published CC-BY 4.0. The code
in `R/functions.R` contains an interface
function `calculate_rp_statistics(d)` that
calculates the revealed preference statistics
we use on the subset of data `d`.

### License for Code

The code is licensed under a BSD-3-Clause license. See [LICENSE_BSD-3-Clause.txt](LICENSE_BSD-3-Clause.txt) for details.


## References

- Polisson, Matthew, John K.-H. Quah, and Ludovic Renou (2020a). "Revealed Preferences over Risk and Uncertainty." American Economic Review 110(6): 1782-1820. https://doi.org/10.1257/aer.20180210.
- Polisson, Matthew, Quah, John K.-H., and Renou, Ludovic (2020b). Data and Code for: Revealed Preferences over Risk and Uncertainty. Nashville, TN: American Economic Association [publisher], Ann Arbor, MI: Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research [distributor], 2020-05-27. https://doi.org/10.3886/E112146V1
